---
title: "CSC 7260 Distributed Systems"
collection: teaching
type: "Every Winter"
permalink: /teaching/CSC7260
venue: "Department of Computer Science, Wayne State University"
date: 2024-06-14
#location: "City, Country"
---

Both basic distributed computing ideas and system designs that support distributed applications will be covered in this course. The following learning outcomes are part of the course: a thorough understanding of the fundamentals of distributed computing, construction of distributed system components, and comprehension of the current state of the art in various areas of distributed systems. This includes studying abstract concepts and practical methods for creating system support for distributed applications.

Objectives
======

Understand the core concepts in distributed systems, like logical clocks, consistent cuts, consensus, replication, and fault tolerance
Learn the standard techniques to implement them to build correct and performant distributed systems and applications
Be familiar with multiple practical distributed systems that underpin popular real-world distributed applications and services 
Know how such systems are realized by relying on core distributed computing concepts


Topics
======

* **Introduction:** definitions, design goals, and types
* **Architectures:** styles, middleware, system, etc.
* **Processes:** threads, virtualization, clients, servers, etc.
* **Communication:** foundation, remote call, message-oriented communication, etc.
* **Naming:** flat, structured, and attribute-based naming approaches
* **Coordination:** clock synchronization, clock, election algorithm, etc.
* **Consistency and replication:** client-centric consistency models and replica management
* **Fault tolerance:** process resilience, reliable communication, recovery
* **Security:** secure channel, access control, secure naming

Grading
======

The course has a mid-term exam based on fundamental knowledge of distributed systems from textbook content. Also, we will review a list of given technical articles to understand practical concepts and recent trends in distributed systems, including edge computing and distributed learning systems.

* 40% for mid-term exam
* 30% for technical article reading and critiques
* 20% for presentation
* 10% for attendance (in-person and online)

Recent Information
======

* **Term:** Winter 2025
* **Time:** TT 1:00 PM-2:15 PM                        
* **Location:** State Hall 2211 Online attendance is available upon approval
* **Prerequisites:** CSC 5250 with a minimum grade of C or waived by the instructor 
